# Design Document

Twitter Hangman is a style of the classic game ‘Hangman’ in which the user guesses trending Twitter tags and phrases. After finishing the game, the app will display a list of Tweets that relate to the “trend” the user has solved, and the user can choose to replay the game as many times as they want. The purpose of the Twitter Hangman app is to provide a fun and interactive approach to learning about current events and trends.

We chose a very minimalistic design for the user interface in order to complement the simplicity of the actual ‘Hangman’ game. While playing the game, the user interface consists of a textbox for user input, the hangman visual, and the total characters guessed. While developing the app, we made it our goal to keep no more than three to four separate ideas on the screen at a time.

The app is built using JavaScript and React JS in order to create a static web app. Using React, we created separate UI Components that each held their own state, and through these Components we were able to design the interface for the game. To get data relating to Twitter Trends and Tweets, we used the Twitter API. Specifically we used one request that would return a list of all trending phrases in the United States, and another that would return a list of Tweets that are related to a Trend. In order to comply with the Twitter API security guidelines, we set up a simple web server running on Express JS in order to make calls to the Twitter API. The front-end application written in React would make HTTP requests to this server, which were proxied from the frontend to the local backend server. This way, we were able to fulfill HTTP requests while complying with Twitter’s security guidelines.

The app is completely sourced on GitHub and, once downloaded, can be run on a local Node.js server. However, in order to run the app the client must obtain a Twitter API Access Token. Twitter must approve API use cases, and this is in accordance with the Twitter API developer policy.
